== Notice ==

{{Draft notice}}

== Introduction ==

The OpenSearch Suggestions extension offers a convention by which search engines can return a set of search term completions for a given search prefix.  The search completions can be used by a search client to dynamically present the end user with search term suggestions.

== Background ==

The [http://www.google.com/webhp?complete=1&hl=en Google Suggest] project pioneered a mechanism for dynamically presenting a list of search term completions as the user interacts with the search interface.  The [http://www.mozilla.com/firefox/ Firefox] web browser incorporates this technique into the browser search box to offer the user dynamic search term suggestions.  This document is based on the [http://wiki.mozilla.org/Search_Service/Suggestions Firefox Search Service design documentation].

== Type ==

The following type is used to indicate that the response will contain search suggestions:

: <code>application/x-suggestions+json</code>

== OpenSearch Description document ==

Search engines that support search suggestions can use the OpenSearch Description document to publish URL templates for the search query.

=== URL elements ===

<code>Url</code> elements of <code>type="application/x-suggestions+json"</code> should be used by the client to retrieve search suggestions.

=== Example ===

  <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
  <OpenSearchDescription xmlns="<nowiki>http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/1.1/</nowiki>">
    <Url type="text/html"
         template="<nowiki>http://example.com?q={searchTerms}</nowiki>"/>
    '''<Url type="application/x-suggestions+json"'''
         '''template="<nowiki>http://example.com/suggest?q={searchTerms}</nowiki>"/>'''
    <nowiki><!-- ... --></nowiki>
  </OpenSearchDescription>

== Search Suggestions Response  ==

=== Response Format ===

The response body should be returned in [http://www.json.org/ JavaScript Object Notation] as a JavaScript array of arrays.

=== Response Content ===

Search suggestions are returned as an ordered collection of values.  
The four values are returned in the following order:

* Query String
* Completions
* Descriptions
* Query URLs

==== Query String ====

Description: A single element echoing the requested search term.  The search client may validate that this value matches the expected response.

Required: yes

Example:

  "sea"

==== Completions ====

Description:  A list of suggested completions for the given search term.

Required: yes

Example:

  "sears","search engines","search engine","search","sears.com","seattle times"

==== Descriptions ====

Description: A list of human-readable strings that provide additional information or context regarding the suggested completion.  

Required: no

Example:

  "7,390,000 results","17,900,000 results","25,700,000 results","1,220,000,000 results","1 result","17,600,000 results"

==== Query URLs ====

Description: A list of URLs that should be used by the search client to request the suggested search term at the corresponding position in the completions lists.

Required: no

Example:

  <nowiki>"http://example.com?q=sears","http://example.com?q=search+engines","http://example.com?q=search+engine","http://example.com?q=search","http://example.com?q=sears.com","http://example.com?q=seattle+times"</nowiki>


=== Example ===

The following is a full example of a JSON formatted search suggestions response:

  <nowiki>["sea",["sears","search engines","search engine","search","sears.com","seattle times"],["7,390,000 results","17,900,000 results","25,700,000 results","1,220,000,000 results","1 result","17,600,000 results"],["http://example.com?q=sears","http://example.com?q=search+engines","http://example.com?q=search+engine","http://example.com?q=search","http://example.com?q=sears.com","http://example.com?q=seattle+times"]]</nowiki>

== Authors ==

Extension documentation written up by DeWitt Clinton <dewitt@opensearch.org>, based directly on the work of 
Joe Hughes' Firefox search suggestions draft documentation and the Google search suggestions format.

== License ==

This document is made available by [http://a9.com A9.com] subject to the terms of the [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.5/ Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 License].

[[Category:Specification]]
[[Category:Extension]]