== Why Should I Upgrade? ==

OpenSearch 1.0 was a first attempt at syndicating search results in an open format.  OpenSearch 1.1 is a more mature format, including many changes that came about from comments on the first version.  OpenSearch 1.1 is more powerful, flexible, and extensible.

Additionally, most software that produces and consumes OpenSearch will make use of the new format, so it is a good idea to stay up to date.

'''But I don’t want to!'''

This upgrade is actually very simple.  Every effort was made to keep OpenSearch 1.1 back-compatible with OpenSearch 1.0, though there are a small number of changes that needed to be made.  

Bear in mind that ;  there are many new features that you can now use to enhance your syndicated search results.

== What changed? ==

This document covers only the small  handful of steps that are required to upgrade.   Be sure to read [[Specifications/OpenSearch/Changelog|the full changelog between OpenSearch 1.0 and OpenSearch 1.1]].

== Upgrade steps ==

To upgrade, you will need to:

# [[#Update your OpenSearch description documents|Update your OpenSearch description documents]]
# [[#Update your OpenSearch response feeds|Update your OpenSearch response feeds]]

=== Change the XML namespace ===

With OpenSearch 1.1, all parts of the OpenSearch specification were moved under a single namespace:

: <code><nowiki>http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/1.1/</nowiki></code>

You will need to change to this namespace in both your OpenSearch description documents and in your OpenSearch response feeds (formerly called OpenSearch RSS).

=== Update your OpenSearch description documents ===

To upgrade an OpenSearch description document from OpenSearch 1.0 to OpenSearch 1.1 you will need to:

# [[#Change the XML namespace|Change the XML namespace]]
# [[#Modify the "Url" element|Modify the "Url" element]]
# [[#Replace the "SampleSearch" element|Replace the "SampleSearch" element]]
# [[#Remove the "Format" element|Remove the "Format" element]]

==== Modify the "Url" element ====

This is the most important change.   You will need to:

# Move the template URL from a child text node into the new "<code>template</code>" attribute.
# Add a "<code>type</code>" attribute.

''Example of the old 1.0 Url element:''

   <Url><nowiki>http://example.com/?q={searchTerms}</nowiki></Url>

''Example of the new 1.1 Url element:''

  <Url type="application/rss+xml"
       template="<nowiki>http://example.com/?q={searchTerms}</nowiki>" />

==== Replace the "SampleSearch" element ====

The old "SampleSearch" element has been replaced by the more powerful "Query" element.  

To convert to OpenSearch 1.1, replace your SampleSearch element with a Query element of type="example".

''Example of the old 1.0 SampleSearch element:''

   <SampleSearch>cat</SampleSearch>

''Example of the new 1.1 Query element:''

  <Query role="example" searchTerms="cat" />

==== Remove the "Format" element ====

The "Format" element has been removed from OpenSearch 1.1.  Remove it from your OpenSearch description document.

=== Update your OpenSearch response feeds ===

To upgrade an OpenSearch response feed (formerly called OpenSearch RSS) from OpenSearch 1.0 to OpenSearch 1.1 you will simply need to:

# [[#Change the XML namespace|Change the XML namespace]]

Of course, you will likely want to explore other types of result formats (such as Atom 1.0) and the [[Specifications/OpenSearch/1.1#OpenSearch response elements|wealth of powerful functionality]] available in OpenSearch 1.1.