== Notice ==

{{Draft notice}}

== Introduction ==

The OpenSearch Advertisement Extension allows search engines to include advertisements with search results.

''Example of a search result that includes an advertisement:''

  <feed xmlns="<nowiki>http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom</nowiki>" 
        xmlns:opensearch="<nowiki>http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/1.1/</nowiki>"
        xmlns:advertisement="<nowiki>http://a9.com/-/opensearch/extensions/advertisement/1.0/</nowiki>">
    <nowiki><!-- ... --></nowiki>
    <entry>
      <nowiki><!-- ... --></nowiki>
    </entry>
    <ad:advertisement>
      <ad:callOut atom:type="TEXT">[Ad]</ad:callOut>
      <ad:title atom:type="TEXT">20% Off Coffee</ad:title>
      <ad:subTitle atom:type="TEXT">Walk in and show us this ad on your phone</ad:subTitle>
      <ad:displayUrl atom:type="TEXT">example.com/coffee</ad:displayUrl>
      <ad:image ad:id="cprp20" ad:width="170" ad:height="30">
        <ad:link href="<nowiki>http://example.com/ads/20_off_coffee.jpg</nowiki>" />
        <ad:altText atom:type="TEXT">Click for Cafes Near You</ad:altText>
      </ad:image>
      <atom:link href="<nowiki>http://example.com/coffee/</nowiki>" />
      <ad:id>1234567890</ad:id>
    </ad:advertisement>  
  </feed>

== Namespace ==

The XML namespace of the OpenSearch Advertisement Extension is:

: <code><nowiki>http://a9.com/-/opensearch/extensions/advertisement/1.0/</nowiki></code>

This namespace and a corresponding namespace prefix must be included when the extension is used in an OpenSearch response.

== Elements ==

The OpenSearch Advertisement extension introduces the following element and sub-elements.

=== The "advertisement" element ===

The <code>advertisement</code> element is used to specify an advertisement related to the search results. See further in this document for the specifications of sub-elements.

: Requirements: This element may appear zero or more times.

''Examples of  <code>advertisement</code> elements:''

  <ad:advertisement>
    <ad:callOut atom:type="TEXT">[Ad]</ad:callOut>
    <ad:title atom:type="TEXT">20% Off Coffee</ad:title>
    <ad:subTitle atom:type="TEXT">Walk in and show us this ad on your phone</ad:subTitle>
    <ad:displayUrl atom:type="TEXT">example.com/coffee</ad:displayUrl>
    <ad:image ad:id="cprp20" ad:width="170" ad:height="30">
      <ad:link href="<nowiki>http://example.com/ads/20_off_coffee.jpg</nowiki>" />
      <ad:altText atom:type="TEXT">Click for Cafes Near You</ad:altText>
    </ad:image>
    <atom:link href="<nowiki>http://example.com/coffee/</nowiki>" />
    <ad:id>1234567890</ad:id>
  </ad:advertisement>  

  <ad:advertisement>
    <ad:callOut atom:type="TEXT">[Ad]</ad:callOut>
    <ad:title atom:type="TEXT">Paris and Nicole: Double Trouble?</ad:title>
    <ad:subTitle atom:type="TEXT">Read this and more at example.com</ad:subTitle>
    <ad:displayUrl atom:type="TEXT">example.com</ad:displayUrl>
    <ad:image ad:id="pn200" ad:width="200" ad:height="40">
      <ad:link href="<nowiki>http://example.com/ads/paris_nicole.jpg</nowiki>" />
      <ad:altText atom:type="TEXT">Click for Celebrity Gossip</ad:altText>
    </ad:image>
    <atom:link href="<nowiki>http://example.com/celebs/</nowiki>" />
    <ad:id>1234567891</ad:id>
  </ad:advertisement>

==== The "callOut" sub-element ====

The <code>callOut</code> sub-element is an [http://www.atomenabled.org/developers/syndication/atom-format-spec.php#text.constructs atom:text construct] used to specify a textual marker that identifies this content as an advertisement.

: Requirements: This element may appear zero or one time.

''Examples of  <code>callOut</code> elements:''

  <ad:callOut atom:type="TEXT">[Ad]</ad:callOut>

  <ad:callOut atom:type="TEXT">Sponsored Result</ad:callOut>

==== The "title" sub-element ====

The <code>title</code> sub-element is an [http://www.atomenabled.org/developers/syndication/atom-format-spec.php#text.constructs atom:text construct] used to specify the title of the advertisement.

: Requirements: This element may appear zero or one time.

''Examples of  <code>title</code> elements:''

  <ad:title atom:type="TEXT">Paris and Nicole: Double Trouble?</ad:title>

  <ad:title atom:type="TEXT">20% Off Coffee</ad:title>

==== The "subTitle" sub-element ====

The <code>subTitle</code> sub-element is an [http://www.atomenabled.org/developers/syndication/atom-format-spec.php#text.constructs atom:text construct] used to specify the subtitle text of the advertisement. The subtitle text is positioned underneath the advertisement title.

: Requirements: This element may appear zero or one time.

''Examples of  <code>subTitle</code> elements:''

  <ad:subTitle atom:type="TEXT">Read this and more at example.com</ad:subTitle>

  <ad:subTitle atom:type="TEXT">Walk in and show us this ad on your phone</ad:subTitle>

==== The "displayUrl" sub-element ====

The <code>displayUrl</code> sub-element is an [http://www.atomenabled.org/developers/syndication/atom-format-spec.php#text.constructs atom:text construct] used to specify the advertisement domain name or URL. This value need not be a valid URL. Most online advertisements display only a domain name as the <code>displayUrl</code>. The <code>displayUrl</code> text is positioned underneath the advertisement subtitle.

: Requirements: This element may appear zero or one time.

''Examples of  <code>displayUrl</code> elements:''
  <ad:displayUrl atom:type="TEXT">example.com</ad:displayUrl>

  <ad:displayUrl atom:type="TEXT">example.com/coffee</ad:displayUrl>

==== The "image" sub-element ====

The <code>image</code> sub-element is used to specify an image displayed in the advertisement.

: Requirements: This element may appear zero or one time.


<table border="1">
<tr>
<td><b>Attribute Name</b></td>
<td><b>Attribute Value</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>id</td>
<td>A unique ID for the image advertisement.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>width</td>
<td>The integer width of the image.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>height</td>
<td>The integer height of the image.</td>
</tr>
</table>


<table border="1">
<tr>
<td><b>Sub-element Name</b></td>
<td><b>Sub-element Value</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>link</td>
<td>An [http://www.atomenabled.org/developers/syndication/atom-format-spec.php#element.link Atom Link element] used to specify the link to an image to display in the advertisement.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>altText</td>
<td>An [http://www.atomenabled.org/developers/syndication/atom-format-spec.php#text.constructs atom:text construct] used to specify the alternate text for the image displayed in the advertisement.</td>
</tr>
</table>

''Examples of  <code>image</code> elements:''
  <ad:image ad:id="pn200" ad:width="200" ad:height="200">
    <ad:link href="http://example.com/banners/paris_nicole_200px.jpg" />
    <ad:altText atom:type="TEXT">Click for Celebrity Gossip</ad:altText>
  </ad:image>

== Authors ==

Gail Rahn Frederick, Damon Lanphear and Michael "Luni" Libes <opensearch@medio.com> (Medio Systems)

== License ==

This document is made available by [http://medio.com Medio Systems] subject to the terms of the [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/ Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 License].

[[Category:Specification]]
[[Category:Extension]]