== Notice ==

{{Draft notice}}

== Introduction ==

The OpenSearch Commerce Extension allows search engines to include information about previewing and purchasing digital commerce items in search results.

''Example of a search result that includes commerce elements:''

  <feed xmlns="<nowiki>http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom</nowiki>" 
        xmlns:opensearch="<nowiki>http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/1.1/</nowiki>"
        xmlns:advertisement="<nowiki>http://a9.com/-/opensearch/extensions/advertisement/1.0/</nowiki>">
    <nowiki><!-- ... --></nowiki>
    <entry>
      <nowiki><!-- ... --></nowiki>
      <com:adultContent>false<com:adultContent>
      <com:partnerId>1234567</com:partnerId>
      <com:rating>5.0</com:rating>
      <com:price value="2" unit="GBP" terms="unlimited"/>
      <com:attribution>
        <com:label atom:type="TEXT">By Example.com</com:label>
        <atom:link href="<nowiki>http://example.com</nowiki>"/>
      </com:attribution>
    </entry>
    <nowiki><!-- ... --></nowiki>
  </feed>

== Namespace ==

The XML namespace of the OpenSearch Commmerce Extension is:

: <code><nowiki>http://a9.com/-/opensearch/extensions/commerce/1.0/</nowiki></code>

This namespace and a corresponding namespace prefix must be included when the extension is used in an OpenSearch response.

== Elements ==

The OpenSearch Advertisement extension introduces the following elements.

=== The "adultContent" element ===

The <code>adultContent</code> element specifies whether the item contains age-restricted content. The definition of "age-restricted content" is defined within locales and out of scope of this document.

: Restrictions: The element value is boolean (true or false). A true value indicates that the item contains age-restricted content.
: Requirements: This element may appear zero or one time.

''Examples of  <code>adultContent</code> elements:''

  <com:adultContent>false<com:adultContent>

  <com:adultContent>true<com:adultContent>

=== The "attribution" element ===

The <code>attribution</code> element specifies a contractually-obligated attribution to be displayed with the digital commerce item.

: Requirements: This element may appear zero or one time.

<table border="1">
<tr>
<td><b>Sub-element Name</b></td>
<td><b>Required?</b></td>
<td><b>Sub-element Value</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>label</td>
<td>Yes</td>
<td>An [http://www.atomenabled.org/developers/syndication/atom-format-spec.php#text.constructs atom:text construct] that specifies the label to display alongsite the digital commerce item.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>link</td>
<td>Yes</td>
<td>An [http://www.atomenabled.org/developers/syndication/atom-format-spec.php#element.link Atom Link element] that is the link target of the attribution label.</td>
</tr>
</table>


''Examples of  <code>attribution</code> elements:''

  <com:attribution>
    <com:label atom:type="TEXT">By Example.com</com:label>
    <atom:link href="<nowiki>http://example.com</nowiki>"/>
  </com:attribution>

  <com:attribution>
   <com:label atom:type="TEXT">Movies by Example.com</com:label>
   <atom:link href="<nowiki>http://example.com</nowiki>"/>
  </com:attribution>

=== The "partnerId" element ===

The <code>partnerId</code> element is used to specify a unique identifier of a browsable or consumable digital commerce item in a partner content catalog. 

: Restrictions: The element value is a String identifier of the item in a partner content catalog.
: Requirements: This element may appear zero or one time.

''Examples of  <code>partnerId</code> elements:''

  <com:partnerId>1234567</com:partnerId>

=== The "price" element ===

The <code>price</code> element specifies the purchase terms, price and currency for a consumable digital commerce item. 

: Restrictions: The element value is undefined.
: Requirements: This element may appear zero or more times.

<table border="1">
<tr>
<td><b>Attribute Name</b></td>
<td><b>Attribute Value</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>value</td>
<td>A float indicating the value of the consumable item.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>unit</td>
<td>The currency unit of the price.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>terms</td>
<td>The terms of use for purchasing the product at this price.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>expiration</td>
<td>Expiration information for the purchase.</td>
</tr>
</table>

''Examples of  <code>price</code> elements:''

  <com:price value="1.99" unit="USD" terms="Trial" expiration="10 days"/>

  <com:price value="2" unit="GBP" terms="unlimited"/>

=== The "rating" element ===

The <code>rating</code> element specifies a numeric rating for a content item. Rating semantics for digital commerce items are out of scope for this specification.

: Restrictions: The element value is a float rating value between 0.0 and 5.0, inclusive.
: Requirements: This element may appear zero or one time.

''Examples of  <code>rating</code> elements:''

  <com:rating>1.5</com:rating>

  <com:rating>5.0</com:rating>


== Authors ==

Gail Rahn Frederick, Damon Lanphear and Michael "Luni" Libes <opensearch@medio.com> (Medio Systems)

== License ==

This document is made available by [http://medio.com Medio Systems] subject to the terms of the [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/ Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 License].

[[Category:Specification]]
[[Category:Extension]]