== Notice ==

{{Draft notice}}

== Introduction ==

The OpenSearch Relevance Extension allows search engines indicate a relative score in a particular domain for an individual search result.

''Example of a search result that includes a relevance score:''

  <feed xmlns="<nowiki>http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom</nowiki>" 
        xmlns:opensearch="<nowiki>http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/1.1/</nowiki>"
        xmlns:relevance="<nowiki>http://a9.com/-/opensearch/extensions/relevance/1.0/</nowiki>">
    <nowiki><!-- ... --></nowiki>
    <entry>
      <title>New York History</title>
      <link href="<nowiki>http://www.columbia.edu/cu/lweb/eguids/amerihist/nyc.html</nowiki>"/>
      <id>urn:uuid:1225c695-cfb8-4ebb-aaaa-80da344efa6a</id>
      <updated>2003-12-13T18:30:02Z</updated>
      <content type="text">
        ... Harlem.NYC - A virtual tour and information on 
        businesses ...  with historic photos of Columbia's own New York 
        neighborhood ... Internet Resources for the City's History. ...
      </content>
      <relevance:score>0.95</relevance:score>
    </entry>
    <nowiki><!-- ... --></nowiki>
  </feed>


== Namespace ==

The XML namespace of the OpenSearch Relevance Extension is:

: <code><nowiki>http://a9.com/-/opensearch/extensions/relevance/1.0/</nowiki>
</code>

This namespace and a corresponding namespace prefix must be included when the extension is used in an OpenSearch response.

== Elements ==

The OpenSearch Relevance extension introduces the following element.

=== The "score" element ===

Contains a string indicating a relative assessment of relevance for a particular search result with respect to the search query.

Decimal values less than 0 should be considered equal to 0.

Decimal values greater than 1 should be considered equal to 1.

Unparseable or empty values can be ignored by the client.

: Restrictions: The value must contain a decimal representation of a real number between 0 and 1, inclusive.
: Requirements: This element may appear zero or one time.

The <code>score</code> element is used to indicate a relative assessment of relevance for a particular search result with respect to the search query.

''Examples of  <code>score</code> elements:''

  <relevance:score>0.3</relevance:score>
  
  <relevance:score>0.924</relevance:score>
  
  <relevance:score>0.12</relevance:score>

== Author ==

DeWitt Clinton <dewitt@opensearch.org>

== License ==

This document is made available by [http://a9.com A9.com] subject to the terms of the [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.5/ Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 License].

[[Category:Specification]]
[[Category:Extension]]