== Notice ==

{{Draft notice}}

== Introduction ==

The OpenSearch Spelling Extension allows search engines to include information about a spelling suggestion in the search results.

''Example of a search result that includes spelling elements:''

  <feed xmlns="<nowiki>http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom</nowiki>" 
        xmlns:opensearch="<nowiki>http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/1.1/</nowiki>"
        xmlns:advertisement="<nowiki>http://a9.com/-/opensearch/extensions/advertisement/1.0/</nowiki>">
    <nowiki><!-- ... --></nowiki>
    <entry>
      <nowiki><!-- ... --></nowiki>
    </entry>
    <nowiki><!-- ... --></nowiki>
    <spell:spelling>
      <spell:suggestion atom:type="TEXT">britney spears</spell:suggestion>
      <spell:prompt atom:type="TEXT">Did you mean</spell:prompt>
      <atom:link rel="spelling" length="0" href="<nowiki>http://example.com/opensearch?q=britney+spears&amp;startIndex=0</nowiki>"/>
    </spell:spelling>
    <spell:related>
     <spell:suggestion atom:type="TEXT">beyonce</spell:suggestion>
     <atom:link rel="related" href="<nowiki>http://example.com/opensearch?q=beyonce</nowiki>"/>
    </spell:related>
  </feed>

== Related Extensions ==

The [http://www.opensearch.org/Specifications/OpenSearch/Extensions/Suggestions/1.0 OpenSearch Suggestions extension] is a [http://www.json.org/ JSON]-based method for obtaining spelling corrections and search term completions. 

This extension is a specification for providing spelling corrections and search suggestions alongside search results in the Atom response document. This method may be more appropriate for search results targeted to mobile devices.

== Namespace ==

The XML namespace of the OpenSearch Mobile Extension is:

: <code><nowiki>http://a9.com/-/opensearch/extensions/spelling/1.0/</nowiki></code>

This namespace and a corresponding namespace prefix must be included when the extension is used in an OpenSearch response.

== Elements ==

=== The "spelling" element ===

The <code>spelling</code> element is used to suggest a spelling correction for the query. Spelling correction hints may be displayed with the search results for the original query.

: Requirements: This element may appear zero or one time.

''Examples of  <code>spelling</code> elements:''

  <spell:spelling>
    <spell:suggestion atom:type="TEXT">britney spears</spell:suggestion>
    <spell:prompt atom:type="TEXT">Did you mean</spell:prompt>
    <atom:link rel="spelling" href="<nowiki>http://example.com/opensearch?q=britney+spears</nowiki>"/>
  </spell:spelling>

  <spell:spelling>
    <spell:suggestion atom:type="TEXT">espresso</spell:suggestion>
    <spell:prompt atom:type="TEXT">Did you mean</spell:prompt>
    <atom:link rel="spelling" href="<nowiki>http://example.com/opensearch?q=espresso</nowiki>"/>
  </spell:spelling>

==== The "suggestion" sub-element ====

The suggestion sub-element is an [http://www.atomenabled.org/developers/syndication/atom-format-spec.php#text.constructs atom:text construct] that specifies the suggested spelling correction for the query.

: Requirements: This element must appear one time.

''Examples of  <code>suggestion</code> sub-elements:''
  <spell:suggestion atom:type="TEXT">britney spears</spell:suggestion>

  <spell:suggestion atom:type="TEXT">espresso</spell:suggestion>

==== The "prompt" sub-element ====

The prompt sub-element is an [http://www.atomenabled.org/developers/syndication/atom-format-spec.php#text.constructs atom:text construct] that specifies the prompt text displayed near the spelling suggestion.

: Requirements: This element must appear one time.

''Example of a <code>prompt</code> sub-element:''
  <spell:prompt atom:type="TEXT">Did you mean</spell:prompt>

==== The "link" sub-element ====

The <code>link</code> sub-element of spelling is an [http://www.atomenabled.org/developers/syndication/atom-format-spec.php#element.link Atom Link element] whose link targets search requests for the suggested spell-corrected query.

: Requirements: This element must appear one time.

''Examples of <code>link</code> sub-elements:''

  <atom:link rel="spelling" href="<nowiki>http://example.com/opensearch?q=britney+spears&amp;startIndex=0</nowiki>"/>

  <atom:link rel="spelling" href="<nowiki>http://example.com/opensearch?q=espresso&amp;startIndex=0</nowiki>"/>


=== The "related" element ===

The <code>related</code> element is used to suggest search terms that are related to the current query but are not spelling corrections.

: Requirements: This element may appear zero or more times.

''Examples of <code>related</code> elements:''
  <spell:related>
    <spell:suggestion atom:type="TEXT">madonna</spell:suggestion>
    <atom:link rel="related" href="http://example.com/opensearch?q=madonna"/>
  </spell:related>

  <spell:related>
    <spell:suggestion atom:type="TEXT">beyonce</spell:suggestion>
    <atom:link rel="related" href="http://example.com/opensearch?q=beyonce"/>
  </spell:related>

==== The "suggestion" sub-element ====

See the <code>suggestion</code> sub-element of <code>spelling</code> for more information.

==== The "link" sub-element ====

See the <code>link</code> sub-element of <code>spelling</code> for more information.


== Authors ==

Gail Rahn Frederick, Damon Lanphear and Michael "Luni" Libes <opensearch@medio.com> (Medio Systems)

== License ==

This document is made available by [http://medio.com Medio Systems] subject to the terms of the [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/ Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 License].

[[Category:Specification]]
[[Category:Extension]]