== Notice ==

{{Template:Draft notice}}

== Overview ==

The OpenSearch parameter extension is an enhancement to the [[Specifications/OpenSearch/1.1#OpenSearch description document|OpenSearch description document]] that enables an augmented query parameter mechanism via structured XML.  The extension also includes a mechanism for specifying alternate HTTP request methods, such as POST, and a mechanism for specifying alternate request encodings, such as "
multipart/form-data".

''Example of a Url element that uses the OpenSearch parameter extension to specify a POST search interface:''

  <Url xmlns:parameters="<nowiki>http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/extensions/parameters/1.0/</nowiki>"
       type="text/html"
       template="h<nowiki>ttp://example.com/search</nowiki>"
       parameters:method="POST"
       parameters:enctype="application/x-www-form-urlencoded">
    <parameters:Parameter name="q" value="{searchTerms}"/>
    <parameters:Parameter name="count" value="{itemsPerPage}" minimum="0"/>
    <parameters:Parameter name="start" value="{startIndex}" minimum="0"/>
  </Url>

== Namespace ==

The XML Namespaces URI for the OpenSearch parameter extension is:

: <nowiki>http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/extensions/parameters/1.0/</nowiki> 

== Elements ==

=== The "Url" element ===

The OpenSearch parameter extension adds two new attributes to the [[Specifications/OpenSearch/1.1#The "Url" element|"Url" element]] in the [[Specifications/OpenSearch/1.1#OpenSearch description document|OpenSearch description document]].

''The new attributes must be explicitly associated with the [[#Namespace|OpenSearch parameter extension namespace]] via a valid XML prefix.''

: New Attributes:
:: <code>method</code> - Contains a case-insensitive string that identifies the HTTP request method that the search client should use to perform the search request.
::: Restrictions: Must be a valid [http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec9.html#sec9 HTTP request method], as specified in RFC 2616.
::: Default: "get"
::: Requirements: This attribute is optional.
:: <code>enctype</code> - Contains a string that identifies the content encoding the search client should use to perform the search request.
::: Default: "application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
::: Requirements: This attribute is optional.

''Example of a Url element that specifies a HTTP POST query:''

  <Url xmlns:parameters="<nowiki>http://a9.com/-/spec/opensearch/extensions/parameters/1.0/</nowiki>"
       type="application/atom+xml"
       template="<nowiki>http://example.com/search?q={searchTerms}</nowiki>"
       parameters:method="POST"
       parameters:enctype="application/x-www-form-urlencoded" />

=== The "Parameter" element ===

Describes a name/value pair to be included in the search request.

: Parent: Url
: Attributes:
:: <code>name</code> - Contains the name of the parameter.
::: Restrictions: Must be a valid parameter name for format identified by the "enctype" parameter on the containing "Url" element.
::: Requirements: This attribute is '''required'''.
:: <code>value</code> - Contains a string that will be processed according to the rules of the [[Specifications/OpenSearch/1.1#OpenSearch URL template syntax|OpenSearch URL template syntax]].
::: Default: ""
::: Requirements: This attribute is optional.
:: <code>minimum</code> - Contains a string that identifies the minimum number of times this parameter must be included in the search request.
::: Restrictions: The value must be a non-negative integer.
::: Default: "1"
::: Requirements: This attribute is optional.
:: <code>maximum</code> - Contains a string that identifies the maximim number of times this parameter must be included in the search request.  The literal string "*" will be interpreted to mean that the parameter may repeat an arbitrary number of times.
::: Restrictions: The value must be a non-negative integer or the literal string "*".  
::: Default: "1"
::: Requirements: This attribute is optional.

''Example of a Parameter element used to represent a simple required core search parameter:''

  <Parameter name="q" value="{searchTerms}" />

''Example of a Parameter element used to represent a simple optional core search parameter:''

  <Parameter name="start" value="{startIndex}" minimum="0" />

''Example of a Parameter element used to represent a repeating custom search parameter:''

  <Parameter xmlns:custom="<nowiki>http://example.com/opensearchextensions/1.0/</nowiki>" 
             name="tag"
             value="{custom:tag}"
             minimum="0"
             maximum="*" />

== Processing Rules ==

''In general, the search client should follow the mechanisms for formulating the HTTP request according the encoding type specified via the "enctype" parameter.  The OpenSeach parameter extension is intended to be open-ended and flexible and allow for future encoding types to be included as they are developed.''

==== The "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" encoding type ====

The search request will constructed as type application/x-www-form-urlencoded, as specified in [http://www.w3.org/TR/html401/interact/forms.html#h-17.13.4.1 Section 17.13.4.1 Form content types] of the [http://www.w3.org/TR/html401/ XHTML 4.0.1 specification].

==== The "multipart/form-data" encoding type ====

The search request will constructed as type multipart/form-data, as specified in [http://www.w3.org/TR/html401/interact/forms.html#h-17.13.4.2 Section 17.13.4.2 Form content types] of the [http://www.w3.org/TR/html401/ XHTML 4.0.1 specification].

== Author ==

DeWitt Clinton <dewitt@opensearch.org>

== License ==

This document is made available by [http://a9.com A9.com] subject to the terms of the [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.5/ Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 License].

[[Category:Specification]]
[[Category:Extension]]